Q: How does one learn to talk to people?

I would say that in terms of large groups, there are people who are very afraid of talking to large groups. I've never had this problem personally. I suppose my reason for not having a problem might be viewed as a negative feature of me in the sense that if you really care what everybody's going to think, then you're frozen. It's like, "Oh my gosh, there might be somebody in the third row who thinks I'm an idiot." If you don't care that the person in the third row thinks you're a spotted toad or something, then you don't get all wound up and worrying about that. I think that's probably one of the things about me. I sort of believe in having respect for the audience, but if somebody concludes that I'm hopeless and terrible, it's like, "Okay, that's going to happen some of the time." I have a certain self-image of to what extent I'm hopeless and terrible and to what extent I'm not, and it's hard to rock that. I don't really worry about that. That's an important attribute in terms of talking to large groups of people: just don't worry about it too much.
In terms of talking to individual people and, for example, telling people what to do, that's an interesting one. There are people who are really great individual contributors, and it's like, "Well, wouldn't you like to manage a group of people?" Sometimes they have the self-awareness to say, "Yeah, I don't think so," and sometimes they'll say, "Oh sure, I'll try doing that," and they fundamentally just can't tell people what to do. They don't feel comfortable telling somebody else what to do. I suppose again it's a matter of personal confidence and so on.
By the time you're ordering people to do things, you've really lost the game. By the time you're saying, "Even though you don't understand why I'm telling you to do this, just do this," you've lost the game. That's never going to work. It's always like, "Can you do this?" but the person understands why you're telling them that. If they don't understand and it's just like an order, then it's really a bad situation to be in. It's very fragile. A famous thing taught to all English school children is the charge of the Light Brigade in the Crimean War: "Charge this bunch of people up this hill with a bunch of cannons firing down the hill." Well, actually, it was the wrong order, but people were like, "Oh yes, great, we'll just go and do this because that's what we've been told to do." Horrible disaster. But if they'd understood why they were supposed to be doing that, they just would have said, "Wait a minute, there's something wrong with this," and it would have been a different story. Similarly, in a tech company, you have to be in a situation where the person you're telling to do something understands why they're doing it. But you also have to not have the kind of personal, "Oh my gosh, is it really my place to tell this person what to do?" Well, yes, if that's the way the thing is set up, it is your place to tell the person what to do.
Sometimes people will say, "Why can't you get this project to work?" and the person will say, "Well, it's because I don't have the title of manager or senior executive manager." Turns out, the title is not what gets people to do things. What gets people to do things is leadership and basically telling them what to do, having them understand why they should do it, defining an objective for the project, and getting everybody aimed in the right direction. That's what gets people to do things. What I always find interesting is that people who don't have the manager title but you find out, "Oh, by the way, this was the person who actually got the project to happen," even though their title is junior whatever. Good management notices that and says, "Hey, wait a minute, you just managed to get the project to run. Would you like to be the head of the next project?" But it's not the case that people sometimes think, "Oh, if they have the title of grand poobah, then everybody will listen to them." In my experience, that doesn't follow at all. What gets people to listen to you is actually providing good leadership. That's something from within you, not something that is where you're anointed to that position.
In terms of talking to people on the sort of more "tell people what to do" thing, I think somehow some people just have to do it a few times and get used to it. Maybe you do it at first with kids. Maybe my own experience when I was a kid being in these situations of putting together the class newspaper and telling people what to do and things maybe that turns into 20 years later telling people what to do in an entrepreneurial company, and you needed that practice of doing it with kids earlier. I don't know. Maybe there's sort of easier cases.
I have four kids, and I think I have rarely ever told them what to do. That's a funny thing because somehow when I see people in a company, for example, and they're having kids or they already have kids, and I see that kind of management style, I wonder how's that going to work given that sort of dealing with kids is a little bit like the same thing. But it's sort of a funny thing that somehow one ends up. I don't know. Let me not go down that path too far, although it's amusing. The real question is whether we can get one of my kids to be on one of these live streams and give their view of that kind of thing. But I would say at least one of my kids is really a very good manager of people. That's a different issue.
In any case, the question I was answering was about learning to talk to people. Another part of the talking to people thing is what happens when you have something to say that isn't easy to say. How do you deal with that? For example, if you're going to tell somebody the person is really keen on doing this and they're convinced that they should be promoted to do that, and no, it doesn't really make sense or whatever else, or you're telling them something that is my point of view. The first thing is don't not do it. Don't say, "Let me not address the issue; it's somehow going to blow over." That's in my experience essentially always a mistake. It's much easier to just confront the issue whatever it is and try and get it out in the open. I suppose my point of view is from almost every issue, there's a way to kind of see an upside to the whole thing. There's a way to kind of explain what's going on that isn't just a "Oh splat, you lose, everything's bad," et cetera. There's a way to think about it in which if something went wrong, if some issue comes up, it's like there's a path forward, and you have to define that path forward rather than just saying, "Blump, we're in this bad situation," etc. It's like define the path forward. That's the kind of way that that discussion ends up not being as grim as it would otherwise be. But it really, my experience is just jump right into it. If there's some elephant in the room, go whatever you do with elephants, lasso the elephant or something. Don't try and hide from the elephant.
Sometimes you have to characterize things. You're starting some meeting, and some bad thing is happening. It's like find a characterization that's sort of amusing and use that as the way to characterize what happened. Did the whole roof fall in, or is there any part of it still left standing? Good way to start. If there's something went horribly wrong, it's like you're recognizing that something went horribly wrong, but you're kind of asking, "Is there anything left standing?" and that's kind of a slightly more positive thing. But don't be in the, in my experience at least, and again, any one of these things that one says, it depends a lot on personality because they're messages that sort of ways to deliver messages that will work for me that will absolutely not work for other people. And there are things where I might try and use some degree of humor. It might not be particularly brilliant humor, but it is my humor, so to speak, and I can make that work. Somebody else trying to do the same thing would be a total splat. Somebody else might have a very personal kind of approach that again I wouldn't be able to execute or might have a very different kind of approach. I also find that when I'm talking to different people, it's very different. There'll be people where it's very aggressive interaction, and it's like everybody's talking over each other, and it's just lots of aggression, and there are other people where it's very calm, very sort of, and it's kind of like, and sometimes they won't say things, and that sometimes drives me crazy, and it's like, "What do you think? Say something," etc., but the interaction is very different for different people.
Okay, question from Moby here: "Would it be better for a startup to get funds? Where would it be best for a startup to currently get funds? Venture capital