Q: What would be better for a startup to get funds currently--venture capital, debt providers, IPOs, IEOs, ICOs, STOs, IDOs?

Three-letter acronyms that I don't know here, so I'm going to have to look those up. I can talk about the ones that I know about.
The first question is: do you need any outside money? I was lucky enough to be able to start my current company without any outside money. How did I do that? I had a certain amount of money, not a huge amount, myself. I also had customers who were interested in our products. In the end, I pretty much funded the startup of the company by making upfront deals with our early customers. That sort of brought in advances, in that case, royalties from bundling software and so on, or royalties from advances for selling software licensing fees from selling software and so on. That was very fortunate. Honestly, for me, that's a really critical part of why my life is comparatively simple: I don't have investors to whom I have to answer. If I had investors, I would feel like I have to make money for them. That has a quite different dynamic in terms of what the company is doing, compared to now where I'm trying to do the most interesting things. Most of the money I'm making, I'm making the decision to have less money and put it into R&D. It's not like I have an investor saying, "Where's my money? Don't spend money on more R&D, just generate some return on investment." I don't have that dynamic, and it's great if you can avoid that dynamic.
But of course, it depends on what kind of company you're starting. If you're starting a company that can be bootstrapped in that way, great. Anybody who's in the institutional business of starting companies is going to tell you that's a crazy thing to do because their institutional business is about providing venture capital funding, providing other kinds of funding, etc. The machinery of institutional company-making is all about these kinds of sources of funding. So, you're not going to get the feedback usually to just bootstrap it. But the truth is, in many places, not so much the tech industry, but there are plenty of industries where people bootstrap companies, and they are happy and successful as companies. There are industries in which you just need a certain amount of money to get going because you need to buy physical objects, hardware, factories, and things like that. You just need money to get that going. If you're in a business that is more of an intellectual production business, the money you need is to pay people. You have to make a decision: do you do something where you're not paying people, you have some arrangement where they're going to make money if you make money? Do you do it all yourself? Do you do it with a small group of people where you're not getting paid? If you're in a stage of life where you're paying a mortgage and paying for this and that, and you can't not have the money come in to do that, then you're under some constraints, and yes, you do have to go out and get investment money.
In terms of understanding about getting investment money, the investors are giving you money because they want to make money. They have an angle: is what you're doing going to be successful for them or not? If it's a venture fund, they have a 10-year duration. Are you going to make money for them? Sometimes 13 years, sometimes different kinds of arrangements. Each fund that's raised, venture capital is sort of in the middle between university endowments, pension funds, sovereign wealth funds, high net worth individuals, or whatever. The upstream investors in a venture capital fund are investing. There will be fund number seven, I don't know whether they get that high, but fund number three of such and such partners will be raised this year, and it will raise 400 million dollars. Then the venture capital firm is responsible for placing that money, placing the bets as well as they can, and hoping that within the period of that fund, those companies will get to the point of having liquidity events: getting sold, going public, whatever else. The investors where five million dollars of the money from that fund was put into company X, and that company will return 10 million dollars in four years or something, that's a win. But you have to understand what is going to be successful for the venture fund. Again, it gets even more complicated because there are the people who are operating the fund who are taking management fees, or maybe they're just junior associates you're dealing with. They have a certain set of things that they're trying to get out of the thing versus the people who are the upstream investors who you will never hear from. Taking money from a venture fund, they're just the backroom source of money, but that's not what you care about in terms of the interface to a venture capital fund. Just as those upstream investors, they don't want to deal with these horrifying entrepreneurs over here. They want some intermediary who's going to deal with that, and that's what the venture fund provides.
But I think that often, one can criticize. I have many friends who are in the venture capital business, but there's a certain fickleness often to that, particularly when there are a lot of kind of more junior people in a fund who are like, "Oh yeah, we got this great idea, we're gonna chase this," etc. It can be a certain degree of, "Oh yeah, this is hot this week, everybody's got to do this this week. Oh, you have a company that does that? Oh, that was hot six months ago, we're not interested in that anymore." So there's a certain distortion of what you might do based on what's hot this week, and that tends to happen there.
Debt providers? Oh boy, it depends on what kind of company you're doing. If you're doing a company that has hard assets, well, that's one thing. If you're doing a company that is a speculative sort of intellectual property-based company, I have to say I don't think that's a great path to go down. It depends at what stage you're at. There's a whole bunch of sort of venture debt mechanisms and so on. I would say at the very beginning, I just don't think that's a fantastic path to go down. Getting remortgaging your house or something is so long as what you're doing is not insanely risky, where if you lost the money, your family would go hungry. I think that's where it starts to get risky because the problem is what happens if you're in a situation like that? It's hard to have the right judgment about things if you're on this kind of tightrope where if you make one wrong step, it's disaster. I think you end up being stretched to the point where, for most people, it's hard to make correct decisions.
Now, the other one of these relevant for early-stage companies is crowdfunding. Crowdfunding seems like a win. I think the idea of saying, "Bring in investors, bring in money, but where you're just going to deliver stuff to people where people don't own a piece of what you have going forward," that's usually a win because it's like the first generation of people. You did a successful crowdfunding campaign, you delivered those new age digital lava lamps or whatever it was, everybody's happy, the first round of investors are thrilled, and then next when you decide you're going to go into the rocket launch business or something, you've got another group. You've built up your company running, you get another group of people. The fact that they have completely different interests from the first group, it's all fine because the first group is happy, you go on to the next one, etc. That seems like a win.
By the way, there are other types of funding like some of these government funding things in the US, SBIRs, things like that. I think when people can get those, that's a good thing, but it's a little bit of again a distortion effect because it's like, "Oh, there's a proposal we can write to this, this, and this. Let's distort what we really wanted to do to make it fit into that particular box." The likelihood of it fitting is not so high because it's like, "Oh, only one in how many proposals gets funded for all kinds of random reasons," which could just be there were a lot of good proposals that month or something, or it could be the program manager just doesn't like you. I mean, it's not supposed to be that, but that's what it ends up being. Same with venture capital and so on.
Another thing mentioned here is ICOs. That's initial coin offerings. They're a little bit complicated because there was a period of time where they were very unregulated, and where people I know raised hundreds of millions to even billions of dollars in these very unregulated ICOs, where it was just like, "I'm gonna do a cryptocurrency, roll up, get early stake in the cryptocurrency, buy it with another cryptocurrency." Well, depending on whether that other cryptocurrency goes up or down, you have a bigger or smaller treasury, all these kinds of things. It's great while it lasted. I'm not sure it's still there. I think that now to do an ICO, it's quite a lot of regulatory compliance issues, etc. I think that's a more complicated story.
Another thing here mentioned is IPOs. I don't know, maybe some of these other things whose abbreviations I don't know, are these some small-scale sell stock to