Q: Stephen, when did you start to have an entrepreneurial spirit? When you were little, did you work to get money?

When I was little, did I work to get money, etc., etc., etc.? I have wondered about this because I am always interested in new entrepreneurs that I come across and people's entrepreneurial trajectories. I kind of backed into starting my first company. I was an academic, a young professor type, and I was developing a software system. I realized, through a series of steps, that the obvious thing to do was start a company. I didn't know anything about that at the time, but I figured it out in the process of doing things. I was doing it as a side project to being an academic.
As I say, my first company, I brought in a CEO because I thought I didn't know anything about this. I was 21 or 22 years old, with no business experience whatsoever. I brought in people to run this, etc., etc., which didn't work out particularly well, except that it was a good experience for me. I was part of the team running this, and I could see what I would do versus what they would do. I realized afterwards that the thing I thought to do was often a better idea than the professionals I brought in. That was a useful piece of input for me in terms of the business side of things.
I realized, after it became clear that I was starting companies, that I thought back to when I was a kid. Is it obvious that I was going to do this kind of thing? The answer is yes, basically because I was always organizing stuff, putting together things, and organizing groups of kids to get things done, etc., etc. I also had the feature, in retrospect, of going to schools where they had clubs. There was always a club that had been running for 150 years, and you could be elected to be the head of it. I never went in for any of those things. I don't think I would have been elected to anything, but I would just start my own. People were a little confused, like, "What do you mean you can just start one of these things?" And it's like, "Yes, you can just advertise, get people involved, and pretty soon it happens." I realized in retrospect that I always did that.
I did that from probably the first thing I remember, which was putting together a class newspaper when I was eight years old. At least one person who was part of that class newspaper, who I reconnected with more recently, had been assigned the task of doing the layout. I am happy to report that he is now the art director for a large magazine chain. So either that was a good choice of role or it was determinative of future behavior. I don't know, but that was my first experience at age eight doing that kind of thing.
In retrospect, although at the time it didn't seem like I was a particularly entrepreneurial kid, it was just that I happened to organize things. Given that I have spent a lot of my life as a CEO of companies, you can look back and say that was kind of obvious. It's only obvious in retrospect.
In terms of why one does this, I mostly do it because I want to build a bunch of things, and this is the best way I know in the world to get to build the things that I think I want to build. It is not easy to be free to build things you want to build. If you're an academic, for example, certain small-scale things you can just do. If it gets bigger and you need a team, someone has to put up millions of dollars to get the project done. Then it's no longer a do-it-yourself story. It's a story of how you interact with the system, write government grants, interact with your university, etc., etc. It becomes definitely in the mode of working for a system, and you have to work within that system. When you say you want to do something incredibly innovative, people will say, "We don't have a program for that. How can you do that? Are you sure it's going to work? Maybe it's not going to work, and it would be the wrong thing for us to give you the money to do this," etc., etc. So it's really difficult to do stuff that is small scale. If you want to do something larger scale, it's pretty difficult to do that. It's pretty hard to have a setup where you're kind of free to do a project that's going to cost some number of millions of dollars and might just be a total disaster.
That's been my main objective in having a company: to have a machine basically for turning ideas that I have into real things. I think that one of the things to realize is that for me, every project we do is zero risk. That is my perception of it going into it. It might not work, but if the primary thing we're trying to do doesn't work, we'll change it a bit, and then something will work. Indeed, the history has been that we managed to get projects done. It's not the case from the outside. You might say, "Oh, you're going to try and build something like Alpha. Nobody's ever done anything like that before. It's big, it's got all these different issues. How can that possibly work?" Or even worse, "You're going to try and find the fundamental theory of physics. How can that possibly work?" Well, the fundamental theory of physics, frankly, I think is a big stroke of luck that it's really worked out as well as it has. In the case of building a piece of technology, it's like you building whatever you choose to build. In the case of finding the fundamental theory of physics, the universe might just happen not to work the way that you imagine it might work, and you might just be out of luck. So it's a little bit of a different situation. But in all of these things, from the outside, you might say that's an incredibly risky project. From my internal perception, I think it's true a lot of entrepreneurs, the internal perception is, "Look, I can just make it work." So it's zero risk at some level. I think that's part of the entrepreneurial story.
In terms of doing these things to make money, I don't particularly do these things to make money. I do these things to be able to do these things, so to speak, to be able to create the machinery to do the things that I want to do. I've made a decent amount of money in my life, and I have to say that I think it's always a complicated thing because there are people for whom the objective, the thing that's really interesting to them, is the process of making money. That doesn't happen to be my situation. I don't think there's anything wrong with that. It's a thing that you can be interested in as something that is just interesting in its own right. I think that it's sometimes sort of there's an irony because that is a thing that can be interesting in its own right, not my particular interest, but a perfectly valid thing to be interested in. But then there's the "I'll make money so I can do X." Now, for me, it's "I'll make money so I can build things." But I need to make enough money to be able to build the things I want to build. The objective is not to maximize the amount of money made. The objective is to have enough money to build the things I want to build. Now, at any given time, like now, I would say that I would like to grow our company by probably a factor of at least two or three, and that requires basically making more money. There's a complicated trade-off about how much of my time and effort goes into doing things which are on the side of making the commercial engines run faster to make more money versus how much goes into figuring out the things we're trying to build. If I were to criticize my company, I would say the main criticism is that its commercial efforts are much smaller and weaker than its innovation and R&D efforts. That's partly a reflection of my own interests and perhaps my own capabilities.
I think a thing to say about CEOing is that it is a typical feature that companies come to reflect the personalities of their founders. Our company, I'm happy to say, has a very good and strong internal culture, which I like to think reflects the better aspects of my personality. Who knows, it probably also reflects the worst aspects of my personality, however you define better and worse. But that's kind of the way that it's set up. I think that people who say, "I'm going to start a company, and it's going to be very different from me. It's going to make things that are very different from the things that I care about," I don't think that tends to work so well.
In any case, there's a question here: "If I could start a company today that is likely to make me a ton of money or one that would let me do something I love, which one should I choose?" You know, all of these things that say, "I'm going to do this because it's going to..."