Q: I am 18 years old that is interested in science and being an academician is, therefore, appealing , but I recognize that a lot of problems that needs to be fixed couldn't be done from inside academia. What is your advice?

From inside academia, what's my advice? It's complicated because academia is a job track, just like working for a consulting company. To some extent, incubators and accelerators have made starting companies a bit of a job track. Being an academic is a job track that is both a good thing and a bad thing. It means that the upside is smaller, but the downside is also smaller. There's a track you follow. These steps can get you a certain distance. If you say, "I'm going to go completely free-range and do things completely for myself," that's more challenging.
I think taking being in academia up to some point is a good thing, worth learning all kinds of stuff while you're interested in learning it. If you're not interested in learning it, don't do academia. If you're interested in learning and you look at the course catalog for some college and think, "Oh my gosh, I want to take all these classes; they all sound super interesting," that's great. On the other hand, if you're saying, "I want to get a degree in such and such. What classes do I have to take? Oh my gosh, I have to take this, I have to take that," you probably shouldn't. You're not going to have the best experience, and you're probably going to forget everything you learned there pretty soon. You'll get your piece of paper. If you're going to do entrepreneurial things, that piece of paper is not the most valuable thing. Entrepreneurism is not a field where people are particularly concerned about your credentials. It's a field where you sell yourself, not where people are asking, "Where's your piece of paper that proves you can do this?"
I think it's something where you need to consider your interests and goals. I'm going to need to go soon, but there are all kinds of questions here. How do you handle working with different and difficult personalities? There's a question: "How can you possibly talk so long answering a single question?" I'm not sure if that's a backhanded compliment or something else.