Q: I am interested in starting a company but I am finding a hard time deciding on a niche market that is on the small scale max of 100 employee likely in the IT sector. Any suggestions?

Boy, I have to say I have run across several people recently, including some who say, "I want to start a company, I just don't know what it should do." That's interesting. It's a strange thing because whenever I've wanted to do this, I've got a thing I want to do. The best way I can see to do it is to start a company, rather than, "I want to start a company, now what should the company do?"
So my main statement would be: look inside yourself, so to speak. What is it that you find interesting? Have you thought, "There's this way people are doing this, and it's really crazy. I could do it a lot better." And I know lots of people who are doing that. I've kind of worked in that industry. Whatever else, I think it's important to know the more you know and the more you're sort of bought into this is the thing I want to do. This is the thing I need to do. I want to do it for myself. I'm a customer for my product.
For example, for me with Wolfram Language and so on, I'm absolutely a customer for that product. I use it every day. I use it, I push it to its limits. This is a product which, even if we had no other customers, even if there weren't millions of other people using it, I would want to build this just for myself. But the mechanism for building it is I have to have this company that supplies it to millions of other people because that's the only way I can have the scale to be able to build the things I want to build myself.
So I think the main thing to say is: what do you find interesting? What do you have unique knowledge about? I think that's the way to think about it. Now, in terms of sort of at a meta level, everything becomes computational. That is the theme of our time. Take something which was done some other way and make it computational.
I mean, I don't know if you're interested in some hobby. Can that hobby maybe be turned into a business? Maybe you're collecting plant leaves and pressing them. It's a terrible example, but I'm just trying to think of one which I don't immediately think has been done. Can you make a network? Can you make a business out of doing something like that? Are there a group of people who want to share?
Or let's say you enjoy playing some kind of word game. Can you make a business out of enabling more people to do that? If you've been in the IT sector and you're like, "I have spent all my time going around checking whether there's an update to software on particular machines. I just wish there was a way to do this more efficiently." Well, maybe that's the thing you should build.
I've spent a lot of my life building tools to let other people build things. The theme of Wolfram Language and our whole technology stack is sort of injecting computational intelligence into everything. Taking things which were just done some other way before, can you use computational intelligence to do that thing? Can you take something that people had done very unsystematically before and make it something that can make use of computational intelligence?
For example, one thing that I still don't have but is predicting whether, if I write a piece of email, I send a question to somebody, what is the mechanism? Should I send a follow-up? Should I bug them, or did they already answer? Having an automated system, we actually have the tools to do this now to use a little bit of machine learning, some rules, some learning from the experience of what is this person? Have they responded to you before? If you have access to internal calendar information and you know are they an internal company person and they're out of the office and they're on vacation, can you figure out whether that's why they haven't responded to you? Can you do that all automatically?
Well, that's something I need, and it's like I would think, "Maybe I should just build that because that's the thing I need." I'll have intuition about what to build because it's something I need, and so it's like, "I'm going to need this feature and that feature and the other feature." I think that's a really good basis for thinking about what to make a company do.
Again, the first step is: is there a seed? Maybe some of these live streams I'll be happy to go through if people have seeds. I can talk about how to go from that seed to something that might be a credible company. The thing is: pick a seed you're interested in and then try and grow it into something that can make a company.
I would say that the other way around of just saying, "I want a thing that is a company of such and such a size," I don't think that seems like a sensible thing to do. I think you have to start with the seed. At first, you may say, "I just can't imagine." Let's say you are into poetry. You're like, "How can I possibly make a business out of poetry?" Well, what about tweets? There are people who have things to say but they want to turn them into tweets. Maybe you start a service which is a service business where you're rented out to ad agencies, people who do social media stuff, and say, "Take this person and they want to make tweets. They'll give you a whole essay, and you'll turn it into a pithy tweet." That's a sort of a way to do commercial poetry, so to speak.
But you might think, "I'd never make a business out of being able to do poetry." But I think the thing is there's creativity in going from the seed of the thing you want to do to how do I make a business out of it. But I think that's the place to concentrate rather than, "I want to make a business now, let me pick something off the shelf."
In another world, to give an example like franchise businesses, you want to start a McDonald's, or you want to start a tutoring center or something like this which is a franchise business where somebody defined this is a business, cookie cutter, take it off the shelf. You can start one of these. Your job is to operate the business. That's a different kind of thing.
Actually, as I'm looking at this camera, I'm thinking to myself, "Why don't we have that for our technology stack? Why don't we have the franchise kit?" In our world, it's like somebody wants to build a fire safety business using our technology stack, but there's no doubt a business to produce software that does that. Maybe we should have a sort of franchise kit of, given your field, this is the kind of kit of how you make something which can turn into a business.
Of course, one of the features of that often is you have to have a customer acquisition strategy, and that may be more challenging when you're dealing with what seem to be customs and lots of different segments. So I think maybe I can take as a meta example of my take a seat and see what you can do with it. What would it take for us to create a company that was in the business of making a franchise mechanism for having, well, an obvious one for us, which is basically teaching people about the computational method using our technology and thinking about things computationally. That's something where that could absolutely be built in a sort of franchise way where it's either regional or field specific or even human language specific. I'm going to do the version of it in Portuguese or whatever. That's something which again could be we've got a scheme, there's the set of things, and now you can go and do it.
I have to say, for example, for the summer school that we run, we've sort of actually for the summer camp that we've run, the high school summer camp, we sort of did build that to the point where it was franchisable. But the challenge is it's again work to just operate the franchising operation to make such a thing work.
All right, we've got a lot of questions here. My gosh, well, I'm probably going to have to wrap up soon here, but we're going to have a great set of questions to start from next time. There's a question from Abhishek about areas where machine learning can be applied. At any given time in machine learning, it's a method, and it gradually solves various different kinds of problems. People are sometimes way overly hopeful.