Q: What are the areas in which machine learning can be applied but in your experience people have never paid attention to?

About what machine learning can do, I just had a conversation today in our company. One group was saying whenever we ask the machine learning people to do things, they never come back with anything useful. Unfortunately, they are right—not because we have a great machine learning group, but because machine learning can only do certain kinds of things. I think what you have to watch is what's the leading edge of the methodology. 
I think automating a certain level of basic human judgment is a good place to start—either basic human judgment or basic human filling in. What do I mean by filling things in? It's like generating a piece of text that sounds roughly right or generating a picture that's roughly right—it's kind of good enough for basic human purposes. Sometimes it is a way to think about things. 
For example, let's say you're doing well from Alpha or working with language, and you're trying to get precise, computable answers to things. If your data is not so great and came from some kind of heuristic machine learning process, if you start building a tower on top of that, the whole tower is going to fall over. 
If you're doing, for example, search where the output is immediately given to humans—like here are five links—okay, one of the links is really stupid, but the other four are good. Everybody's happy. You don't need such a high degree of success for it to work. 
Another example I didn't see coming was interesting: people searching the web for resumes and trying to characterize people based on reading their resumes with natural language understanding. Let's say you can do that, but you make some horrible, goofy mistakes. For example, you pick up Carl Friedrich Gauss, the famous mathematician from the 1800s, and you somehow assign him to the University of Whatever. Then somebody points out that he's been dead for 150 years. But in that space, having something which is not great but gets somewhere is useful for things like sales prospecting, hiring people, or finding potential candidates. Even having something with a 60% hit rate is really quite good because some will fail for all kinds of reasons—they might fail because you're trying to hire a person who was fictional or who has been dead for a hundred years. But you know that, so you move on to the next one, and it's not a problem that it wasn't perfect. 
As a question from Khalid, 18 years old, he says he's interested in science and being an academic. Being an academic is appealing, but he recognizes a lot of problems that need to be fixed that couldn't be done.