Q: What made you decide to go through with starting your own business and what did you think of Feynman's advice/letter at the time?

The advice essentially said: don't organize things, don't get involved in running things, just do science and be happy. I think it's one of the traps of giving advice that I'm very well aware of and sometimes embarrassed by when I give it myself. Advice is often more a reflection of the giver than the receiver. In that particular case, Richard Feynman really had not had a good time running things. I actually don't think he was as incompetent at it as he thought he was. I think he put himself in some situations where he had stacked the deck against him. I don't think he was as unsavvy about people and things as he gave himself credit for; he just hadn't had an opportunity to notice that.
For me, I completely ignored that piece of advice, to be perfectly honest. I think it's a question of what one feels comfortable with. One of the things he thought, which I consider a tremendous mistake, is that you're going to be driven crazy by people doing dumb things. The only way you're going to find people who don't do dumb things is when you're collaborating with people in fancy science kinds of things. I'm happy to say, and I can certainly say it for our company, there are a lot of really smart people who aren't physicists. There are people who are physicists who I don't think are really so smart. The ability to figure things out cuts across many different kinds of people with different backgrounds and achievement levels in the world. I do like dealing with people who can figure things out, but it's certainly not the case that those are only to be found in science. Quite the contrary.
For me, as for any entrepreneur, there are certain kinds of people that I work well with and other kinds of people I don't work so well with. If you go to business school, there's a certain set of principles about how to do business that you learn. I sometimes think that some parts of those can be applied to any creature dressed up in a suit. Having that suit gives you a certain amount of credibility. That's a very unkind characterization of business school, and I'm ashamed of myself for giving that. But it is certainly true that what business school educates people about is business run in a particular way, typically the way that large companies are run, where there are many cogs that work in certain ways. To fit into those cogs, you have to know how a machine with those kinds of cogs works.
For me, I would say our company, for example, tends to figure out the whole landscape ourselves. While we've tried to build all kinds of cogs that work in sensible ways, the cogs we've built are very different in many cases from the cogs that people would build in other companies. People coming to us from large companies might ask, "Don't you have a system for that?" Well, no, we figure it out every time. It's like, "Oh my gosh, how can that possibly work? How can you have a meeting in which you figure something out? Isn't everything figured out offline?" The concept that you actually have a meeting where somebody in management is working with other people in real time, saying, "Let's figure out what to do," is viewed in many larger corporate environments as being impossible. To be credible as a manager, you have to figure out what to do in advance and then announce it to the team, rather than exposing to the team the fact that you're going through a thought process.
For me, in the culture of our company, exposing that I'm going through a thought process is a valuable thing to do. I'm not afraid of doing it. I think it's useful to get feedback and to educate people so they understand how to go through these thought processes themselves. I found that to be a valuable thing. You'll see very different corporate cultures and different things happening. I was just exposed to somebody I've known for a long time who worked for a very large company for several decades, left, and decided to do a startup. I don't think he understood what's involved in doing a startup. It's like you're licking the stamps yourself, whereas in the company he'd been working for, there were probably eight layers of management between him and the people who were doing the analog of licking the stamps. There was just a system that eventually ended up with the stamps getting licked. I don't think one licks stamps anymore, probably for the better. But conceptually, at least, that startup was a total disaster because it was like, "I can just delegate this and this and this thing." But it's a startup; there's nobody to delegate it to. If you're working for a giant company, there are all kinds of layers and systems you can delegate to, but it doesn't work that way in a startup.
A question from Fiddlestine: Do I think most academics lack business sense? I don't know. I think that running a lab, running a serious research program, is actually not that different from running a business. The mechanics of how you get money are different; you're going to a funding agency typically rather than an investor. But it's not that different. In the biomedical area, there's a lot of crossover between running labs and running early-stage companies. Less so probably in other areas. Sometimes academics can vary. I've observed that some pure mathematicians are very savvy about the world.