Q: how has being based in Illinois near UIUC instead of silicon valley, nyc, or boston impacted your company if at all? what convinced you to make this decision?

The reason I did that was because I had been starting this kind of area of science that mostly now gets called complexity theory. I was at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, a small but distinguished research organization. My efforts were quickly expanding to be too big for that organization. 
I went around the country, entrepreneurial in a way, to different universities asking where I should start a research center for this kind of science. The University of Illinois won that competition, so to speak, and I went there to start that research center. I think that in the end, it worked out really well for the university.
From my side, I realized quickly that I was not a great employee of universities or anything else. It was much better for me to be running my own thing. That was how I came to start my company. At that time, we started the research center in Champaign, Illinois, and that was where I started the company.
By 1991, I was trying to distance myself a bit to give the company some breathing room and work on a basic science project. I first spent a year or two in California, then moved back to the Chicago area. Now I live in the Boston area, where I have been for 20 years.
My becoming a remote CEO was the beginning of us having a very geo-distributed company. Our headquarters and largest number of employees are in Illinois, but we have other offices in different places and many individual people working in a wide range of countries around the world. We are not as localized as we might be. Places where we have very few people are places like Silicon Valley and New York City.
Part of the reason is that we would have to pay them a lot more to live in those places. It doesn't really benefit us to have them there. As far as we're concerned, we are mostly generating R&D and products. It's about people producing things, not about people being in a particular place.
For me, both the geo-distributed character of our company and the fact that the core of the company is in the Midwest of the U.S. bring a certain kind of long-term thinking and solidness of approach. In Silicon Valley, there tends to be very much of a focus on posturing and what you say you're going to do, more so than what you are actually doing. That's less of an issue in New York City and Boston, but it's a particular disease of modern Silicon Valley.
It's gotten worse in recent years with the outsized success of some things in Silicon Valley, which are terrific, but it leads to a culture where everybody has to be saying they're going to do fantastic things. It's a spiral. You talk to people from Silicon Valley culture, and they claim to know everything. You talk to someone not from that culture, and they are more modest, but they both know the same amount. There's a need to inflate the presentation because that's what everybody else is doing in Silicon Valley.
It's always amusing to me. Before the pandemic, when I would occasionally visit Silicon Valley, I found it less and less useful. You walk into your average Starbucks, and every little conversation fragment is about startups. It's like Hollywood, where everybody is pitching a script or a movie. It's worth realizing it's start-up town.
The culture of my company is very different. It's not all about pitching things; it's about trying to actually do things and figure a lot of stuff out. I advised a bunch of Silicon Valley companies, and sometimes things happen like a CEO realizing they have to support customers 24/7 with some cloud system. In Silicon Valley, there's a certain "oh my god, nobody can do that" attitude. In many other places, some people like doing those kinds of jobs.
For me, it's been important both in terms of making the economics of our company work and in terms of the culture of the company that we're not a Silicon Valley-based company. We once had a small operation in Silicon Valley, and it was a disaster. It's the only time in the whole history of our company where I had to close down a group.
The problem was the inflation of posturing. The person running it would interact with people in other parts of our company and say they didn't seem very sharp. These are people I've been working with for a long time, and I know they are really good at getting stuff done. The Silicon Valley group was listening to our general people being very matter-of-fact about what they know and don't know, and that was seen as not being any good because if you were any good, you would have inflated yourself by a factor of 10.
I think it's been tremendously strong for our company that we have such a diversity of places where people are coming from and backgrounds of people. The challenge for management is how to operate within a company where there are so many different kinds of people working together. That defines a company culture, to have that sort of diversity of people and expect different points of view.
It makes for something where you're really focused on what the company is trying to do. I think it works well by the time you have that deeper mixture of different kinds of people. That's been terrific for us, and many of the things we've done as a company would have been very hard to do in Silicon Valley.
The longevity of employees is much less in most companies in Silicon Valley because it's like, "I'm just a programmer, and I can go work in some other place." As opposed to, "I'm here because I really care about this particular company." For our particular company, it's been great to be based in the Midwest of the U.S. and to have this kind of wide geographic distribution.
I'm not sure for a different kind of company or a different kind of CEO it might be very different. For me, there are people who really like being part of a local business community and interacting with other business leaders. I haven't really done that myself very much. I'm kind of a slightly weird data point in the world of your average CEO, although I'm not as weird as you might think.
Anyway, that's my point of view. Thank you very much for joining us, and I look forward to hearing from you another time. I'll store up these questions and be happy to try and address more of them next time.