Q: Stephen begins the Q&A

Hi everyone. This is the beginning of a new potential series of live streams and podcasts. The requested subject is about business and innovation Q&A for young entrepreneurs and others. This aligns with a different live stream about science and technology Q&A for kids and others. The second one focuses more on the content of science and technology.
The request here was to talk a bit about my life in business and innovation and questions around that. So, maybe I should explain a little bit about my life and times. My day job is being the CEO of our company, Wolfram Research, for the last 33 years, which is quite a long time. It is very unusual in the technology industry to have a company that has been around for that long. Certainly, to have a company that has been able to do as much innovation as we have consistently over that period of time is very unusual. I have been very pleased that we have been able to do that.
As a business, we are about 800 people these days. We have been happily and profitably operating every year for over 30 years. But our main focus has been on doing innovative and interesting things that are useful to people, more so than growing a business for the sake of having a business. That is a somewhat unusual set of optimizations in the technology world.
Part of the reason we have been able to do that is that we are a private company. We do not have outside investors. We do not have to answer to other people making money from the actual operation of our company. We operate in such a way that most of the money we make, we reinvest in research and development, trying to build the most interesting and useful things we can.
In terms of my personal world, this is kind of the second company I started. The first company I started when I was 21 years old, also a software technology company. That company had a somewhat more traditional trajectory. It had investment money from early venture capital and so on. Eventually, I did not CEO that company; I brought in a person to be the CEO. Many years later, that company went public in a rather undistinguished IPO, long after I stopped being involved in it. But that was my first experience of businesses, the company I started back in 1981.
I have also been an advisor to many companies and many CEOs over the years, quite a bit between the time when I did my first company and the time when I started Wolfram Research in 1986. Recently, I have been doing a bit more advising of CEOs and so on. I have found it a rather strange situation. I kind of do mentoring of two types of people: kids and CEOs. I was wondering why I find these two groups interesting, and I realized recently that the reason is that those are two groups of people for whom, in a sense, everything seems possible. If you are the CEO of an up-and-coming company, you kind of do not get to do that unless you feel that sort of everything is possible and there is a big growth potential. If you are a 14 or 15-year-old kid, then there is a decent chance that you will still think that kind of everything is possible. So, those are the two cases that I found interesting personally to do a certain amount of mentoring with.
But that has given me more perspective on a variety of different industries and the way things work. My predominant experience in business is running our own company, Wolfram Research, since it is now close to 33 and a half years or so. For me, I see myself as primarily somebody who likes to build interesting things. Operating a business, running a company, I see as being kind of a matter of common sense, although I do realize that common sense to one person may not be so obvious to another person. I think I have been fortunate enough that a lot of the things that are necessary for the basic running of a business seem kind of obvious to me, even in cases where maybe they are not quite so obvious to other people. I have never seen that as being anything that I am particularly exceptional at doing. It is just something which I have done as a matter of necessity so to speak because the things I want to do, for which having a business is a means to an end.
In terms of running a business, a big part of the story for me is kind of keeping the thinking apparatus engaged in everything that one does. The things one has to figure out, whether it is about business strategy, internal organization, individual people, and projects and so on, each one of these things is something to which one can apply analytical thinking, just like I do in trying to do science and trying to build technology and those kinds of things. I think that has been a just figure it out kind of thing.
Sometimes it is like, well, if one had gone to business school, which I certainly did not, it is like, oh, everybody would know how to do this because this is the way one learns to do such and such a thing. The way I have done business, it is always, well, let me figure out what I think the right thing to do is, and that is sort of optimized for a situation in which you are really emphasizing innovation. I am not sure it is optimized for a situation in which you are doing business for the sake of doing business and for purely commercial ends. But that has been the way that I have done things.
I think I have been fortunate. Over the years, I have collected a really terrific team at our company. For me, an important part of the story of running a business is being interested in the people and being able to try and figure out what one thinks particular people will be good at doing and how to sort of fit together the jigsaw puzzle of the people that one has and the projects one wants to do. Again, another thing to realize about the CEOing business so to speak is that there are a lot of different personalities that can be successful as CEOs. There are some personalities where it is like, I would be really surprised if this person was successful, but sometimes even then people do surprise me and are successful. But I would say that I am on the end of the figure everything out, think about everything side of things. I am also on the end of trying to have a flexible approach to dealing with people with very different kinds of backgrounds and interests and so on, and trying to fit those together with what one is trying to achieve as a company.
In this live streaming series, I will be happy to talk about both things in terms of operating companies, issues about how to do that, how to do innovation in a situation where, for example, one of the issues is, once you are successful, how do you do something new? That is often non-trivial, and big companies have a huge struggle with that. I am happy to talk about things like the best size of company for different kinds of things one wants to do. I am not sure I have completely optimized that, although I am fairly happy at what we have been able to do. I am also happy to talk about startups. I have seen a bunch of startups, advised lots of people who have done startups. Sometimes they have been spectacularly successful, sometimes they are frustrating as anything to be on the sidelines of because it is like, you can succeed, you really can succeed, just do not do the wrong thing, and people do the wrong thing. But I think that is one of the things about running one's own company is that it is in many ways a lot less frustrating than giving advice to other people because if I am not doing something that I kind of should be doing and that I would advise myself to be doing if I was looking from the outside, at least I internally know why I am not doing it, like it is just too hard or I just cannot, it just does not feel like the right thing to do and so on.
Okay, we have got lots of questions here, so let me try and see. There is a comment here: "I cannot imagine having 800 people working for one." I think one of the things to understand about that is there are people like me.