Q: If I could start a company today that is likely to make me a ton of money, or one that would let me do something I love, which should I chose?

Making all this money rarely works for people who don't believe in or find interesting the things that companies do. Unless, as I say, there are sometimes cases where the actual process of making money is what people are interested in—not for the sake of having the money, but for the sake of the process of making the money—then it makes sense. But if you're saying, "I want to do this thing I really don't like, but it's going to make a lot of money, and then I'm going to use this money to buy myself happiness," that, in my observation, essentially never ends well.
It doesn't end well at many levels. People who aren't really interested in what their companies do can't lead them very well. They're not that motivated, etc. If they're lucky and they actually make a bunch of money—which doesn't happen very often—my observation is that anybody who says, "I have this sort of get-rich-quick scheme where I'm going to just do this, punch these buttons, and money's just going to start spilling out," it just doesn't work that way. Maybe I have too puritanical a theory of making money, but my observation is you have to do real work, achieve real things. It's very rare.
Sometimes, something lucky will happen, and some money will spurt out, but it usually doesn't repeat. Sometimes people say, "Oh, look, it spurted out money. Let me just keep doing the same thing," but that was just a fluke, and everything else goes bad from then on out.
The other case is: you were doing this terrible thing that you really found incredibly boring, but you did it for a decade in order to make money. Now you have your money. What are you going to do with it? That is a separate problem because, really, way too often, people are like, "Oh, I have all this money, so I should be really happy about that." It doesn't work out that way.
There's a level below which things are awkward, and it's hard to concentrate on things you're interested in because you're always worried about issues of money. But I think there's a level at which that does not need to be the case. If you always insist, "Oh, there's a person richer than me, and I should go and buy the thing that the person richer than me wants to buy, even though I can't really afford it," then you're in some kind of complicated spiral. But there's a large domain of life where, so long as you don't end up always saying, "Oh, look at this thing that I could get if only I had more money," do you really want the yacht? Do you really want the private plane? Do you really want the big house?
Each of these things has good features and tiresome features. The bigger house you have, the more things are going to break in your house in any given month. There are always certain kinds of trade-offs. The more you delegate things to get done, and the more you're not doing them yourself, the more there's a certain probability it won't be done right. Then you're letting all kinds of other people in on all aspects of your life. It's a trade-off.
The idea of more money is always better is, at least in my observation of people in the world, really not the case. Having one's desire for things be less than one's ability to generate money is a good place to be. Generating money for the sake of it, unless the actual process of making the money interests one, saying, "I'm making the money in order to buy happiness later," rarely works. I could give you many anonymized examples of that in action. It's kind of grim.
I think it's much more important to do things that you actually find interesting, where the journey is the reward, rather than saying there's going to be a reward, a pot of gold at the end of this long rainbow of building something up. At least, that's my point of view.
Let's see. A question from Tapadar: I think they've noticed a letter that Dick Feynman, the well-known physicist, sent me years ago.