Q: Do you think most academics lack business sense?

And there are some pure mathematicians who think the world works like pure mathematics, which it doesn't. It's not that straightforward. For example, determining if someone is right for a job is complicated. They might be right for the job if the job evolves in a certain way with specific management, but not in another case. It's a gray area. Applying the same black-and-white thinking to business can be disastrous.
I've seen cases, somewhat frustratingly, where people have a very rigid view that things must work a certain way. The reality is more complex and involves more issues than they acknowledge.
Academia has evolved, and I may not be as up-to-date on its culture as I was decades ago. I have many friends in academia, though some are on the entrepreneurial fringe. Academics sometimes have a skewed view of the business world, just as those in the commercial world can have a skewed view of academia.
In academia, the objectives are often to write papers, figure out interesting things, and follow a certain rhythm of activities like attending conferences. In the entrepreneurial world, there's a stronger focus on achieving a specific mission as quickly as possible, with a sense of flow and motion toward an objective.
People from academia who join our company, which has a strong flow of objectives, sometimes find it disorienting. For example, in a meeting, we might decide something quickly, whereas in academia, decisions often involve lengthy committee discussions.
There's a different rhythm and intuition in the entrepreneurial world compared to academia. If someone assumes these differences don't exist, they might get confused. For instance, if an academic tries to operate in an entrepreneurial company the same way they did in academia, it probably won't work well.
In academia, part of the calculation for a project is whether it can result in a paper. In the entrepreneurial world, we focus on making a product that is useful to people, regardless of whether it's intellectually interesting enough for a paper.
For example, we could have written many papers about the natural language understanding system of Wolfram Alpha, but we haven't because our value system prioritizes making a better system over writing papers that few people would read.
Regarding the question from Matthew about whether a PhD is necessary to start a company in tech and business, I don't think that's true. While a PhD can be beneficial, it's not a prerequisite for success in these fields.