Q: Do you think you could have started your companies without having a PhD? It feels as though one needs a PhD to get ahead in tech & business in general these days.

For me, the fact that I had been a fairly successful academic was useful from a contacts, PR, and credibility point of view. Was it necessary? Absolutely not. Was it helpful in the particular company I was starting, with the particular way we started things? Yes, it was useful.
One of my heuristics in business meetings is: people say you could call me Mr. Wolfram, Stephen, or Professor Wolfram. If I'm in what's supposed to be a business meeting and somebody calls me Professor Wolfram, I know the meeting is going to be a complete disaster. Why is that? Because to people in the business world, "professor" is some sort of in-the-clouds, out-there, flapping-around term. It's not a pragmatic business thing. It's like, "Yes, professor, your work is very interesting, but it's irrelevant to our business." That's the vibe there.
Now, does it make any difference if you're a doctor or Mr.? Absolutely not. It probably does if you're in some areas like the pharmaceutical business or biomedical fields, but in pure CEOing, I would have to say that I'm always a little suspicious when I go to a business conference and see people with name tags like "Dr. So-and-so." I don't usually bother to fill that out, and sometimes I think, "I'm a PhD too, I should have 'doctor' as well," but I don't care. Does it make a difference? Sometimes it's a conversation starter: "What's your PhD in? Are you a medical doctor or some other kind of doctor?" But that's about it.
So, I think the answer is that any level of credential you think you need to start a company is something you need for yourself, not for the outside world. Starting companies, entrepreneurship, and CEOing require a certain degree of personal confidence. If you think, "I can only do that if I have all this training or this particular thing," fundamentally, you're not ready to do it. It's an excuse structure rather than something that actually matters in the outside world.
If you look at the distribution of people who have started successful companies and their educational backgrounds, it runs the whole range from people who dropped out of high school to people with fancy PhDs and professorships. The range is more weighted towards less education than more education. In the tech industry, the number of people who started significant tech companies from the PhD crowd is actually not that large—much smaller than you might expect. People often just get on and start a company because that's what they want to do.
So, I would say that it's not a necessary thing. The question here: How does one learn to talk to people? It depends on what you mean—talking one-on-one or talking in large groups.